---
layout: single
title:  "When you talk too much, you get bored"
date:   2019-08-05
categories: Wellness
permalink: /whenyoutalktoomuch/
excerpt: "Why it is not wise to waste time evangelizing people"
header:
  overlay_image: /images/biblio.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.3
  og_image: /images/sanpaolo.jpg
---

There is a dear friend, whom I used to consider an intelligent person. He has an impressive classical culture and some serious brain-power. He grasps my arguments in seconds. He is willing to try and reads the books I suggest. However, he talks too much.


I saw him times and times again talking to impress people with his erudition, knowing that no matter what you talk about, people will not change course of action. It remembered me of an apostle, looking to evangelize anybody who fell on his sight.

What's the point, you would ask, of speaking too people and meeting resistance? There is a certain pleasure in displaying (fake) erudition. People consider you a genius, an "intelligent" person and still... go on doing what they are doing.

I got caught in this bad habit. Sometimes I get engaged in long discussions with acquaintances or even my parents about subjects that they will never understand properly.

1. They don't have the book backgrounds to understand it. Useless to talk about Lindy if you haven't understood Taleb or to talk about Austrian Economics if your only knowledge about them is some high school knowledge or a quick look at wikipedia. This is remediable since I have had wonderful discussions with people that have grown and read my suggestions and as I did with their. Remember that this is the vast minority.
2. They have a completely different vision compared to yours and it will not change anytime soon. Vision is not given only by readings (as at one time I believed), but by experience and character. One, most of the time, searches for reading that aligns with his mentality. Useless to talk about entrepreneurship if the counterpart happily wants to stay in a multinational's death hug.

Most of the times it is sufficient to give hints and not take pleasure in telling all the story, as it will let them even more confused. If you really want to educate people, like sales, you don't vomit on them the story, you ask purposefully designed questions that provoke doubts and you point them in the next steps (i.e. further readings). 

What you are losing if you approach the world as a guru is time, that you could  have invested in more successful  endeavors like creating this damn second income stream instead of just talking about entrepreneurship and energy as "trying to convince" people requires so much effort and leaves you drained.

More often than not, it is also boring as it is very rare nowadays that I find somebody telling me something interesting. The interesting people that I know, money, health and cultural wise, are all on my internet circle. 

My suggestion: less talk, keep your wisdom for yourself (but don't forget to challenge it) and more, way more action.